.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.ad l
.nh
.TH BEAROFFDUMP 6 "2006-01-14"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
bearoffdump \- dump a position from the GNU Backgammon bearoff database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bearoffdump
.I file id
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bearoffdump
takes the path to a GNU Backgammon bearoff database and a position number
and dumps the bearoff information for that position.  It can be called on
either the one-sided bearoff database, normally
.IR /usr/share/gnubg/gnubg_os0.bd ;
or the two-sided bearoff database, normally
.IR /usr/share/gnubg/gnubg_ts0.bd .
The output from the former includes the probabilities of bearing off all
checkers in varying numbers of moves.  The latter only gives the
probability of winning and doubling cube equity.
.PP
The
.I id
is difficult to derive if you don't know GNU Backgammon internals.  Each
possible combinatorial position of checkers and points is assigned a
position number,
.I id
divided by that number is the player position, and
.I id
modulo that number is the opponent position.  The number of points and
checkers is set when building the bearoff database and are shown by
.B bearoffdump
when run with any
.IR id .
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR gnubg (6)
.SH AUTHORS
Joseph Heled, \[/O]ystein Johansen, J\[/o]rn Thyssen, and Gary Wong,
with the assistance of many others <bug\-gnubg@gnu.org>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Russ Allbery <rra@debian.org>, for the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It may be
redistributed and/or modified under the terms of version 2 of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation (the
same license as GNU Backgammon).
