.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.ad l
.nh
.TH MAKEHYPER 6 "2015-04-12"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
makehyper \- generate a GNU Backgammon Hypergammon position database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmakehyper\fR
[\fB\-nvh\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIfilename\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIfilename\fR]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIchequers\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fIthreshold\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Hypergammon is a variation of backgammon with a much reduced number of
chequers (usually three).  It's possible to fully analyse this simplified
game and generate a database of position evaluations in order to play
perfectly.
.B makehyper
generates such a position evaluation database.
.PP
Since many of the positions are in contact, it's not possible to generate
the database in one pass; instead,
.B makehyper
iterates until the position evaluation converges.  The convergence
threshold can be changed with the
.B \-t
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR \fIfilename\fR, \fB\-\-outfile\fR \fIfilename\fR
Write the hypergammon database to
.IR filename .
Default is "hyper<number of chequers>.bd", the name expected by
GNU Backgammon when using the database.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fIfilename\fR, \fB\-\-restart\fR \fIfilename\fR
Restart calculation of the database from the given file, which should be a
checkpoint from an earlier run.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIchequers\fR, \fB\-\-chequers\fR \fIchequers\fR
Set the number of chequers in the game.  The default is 3, for normal
3-chequer hypergammon.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-checkpoint
Do not write a checkpoint file after each iteration.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIthreshold\fR, \fB\-\-threshold\fR \fIthreshold\fR
Set the convergence threshold.  The default is 1e-5.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR gnubg (6)
.SH AUTHORS
Joseph Heled, \[/O]ystein Johansen, J\[/o]rn Thyssen, and Gary Wong,
with the assistance of many others <bug\-gnubg@gnu.org>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Russ Allbery <rra@debian.org>, for the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).  It may be
redistributed and/or modified under the terms of version 2 of the GNU
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation (the
same license as GNU Backgammon).
